We are now running this container and
I've exposed Port 3,000 here.
So if we run a container in here,
it will be exposed on port 3,000, okay?
So then, we're gonna use Buildah to build
a Buildah container inside a source here.
So if you look, this has a Docker file,
it's our index dot js.
If I say cat index dot js,
you can see here,
it's just our node service that we
wrote a couple of chapters ago, okay?
Now Buildah has a particular way of
building containers that you can go in.
It's kind of built to
be built interactively.
So rather than having a Docker file,
you go and you say,
okay, we're gonna start from here and
then do this to the container.
And you do it just with
the command line interactively.
It's kind of a fun way
to build containers.
We're not gonna be doing that because
it would take a bunch of time.
And I'll leave you to do that if
you're interested in doing Buildah.
This is more just to introduce you to it.
What I'm gonna do instead
is I'm gonna say buildah.
And then,
you can say build-using -docker-file.
So Buildah knows how to read Docker files,
which is pretty cool, right?
Or if you don't wanna type
build-using-dockerfile,
they shortened that to bud,
build-using-dockerfile.
You tell it the file,
which is dot slash Dockerfile.
And you're gonna give it a tag
just like you would with Docker.
And you're gonna say my-app-buildah.
Whatever you wanna tag it,
and then period.
So from there, it's gonna go and install
all the necessary things that you need.
It's gonna go grab them off of Docker hub.
I don't know why it's flashing so much.
So this will take a second cuz this is not
gonna pull from the Docker cache, right?
Cuz this is a product than Docker.
So that downloaded node 12-stretch.
You could also change this to node alpine,
it'd be totally fine and
it would take a little
less time to download.
And this is gonna go piece by piece and
build our Docker file, or
build a container with our Docker file.
So you can see there,
it's running our npm install there.
It's gonna run npm ci.
Copy our node directory over.
And there you go.
We successfully built a Buildah
container using a Docker file.
So let's do a buildah inspect.
What did I call,
did I call it my-app-buildah?
I think I did.
Same thing here.
You can see all the various things it did.
You can see all the layers that it did,
so on and so forth.
Okay?
So there is some overlap between what
Buildah can do and what do Podman can do.
It's not as clean cut as
you might think it is.
You can actually use Buildah
to run containers as well, but
you use it more to do the Docker run one
command and then finish kind of scenario.
Podman is more for I wanna run a web
server and I want you to manage this for
me, right?
Whereas Buildah can say, hey, do a thing
with a container and then finish.
So they kinda separate that out
between Buildah and Podman.
So what we could do here is we can say
buildah run dash dash net host, my app.
I have to do that thing first.
You have to do this, sorry.
Buildah from my-app-buildah, like that.
Cuz you have to get
the container started first.
So now, I have it started.
Can I do like a buildah ps?
Does it know how to do that?
It does.
Okay, so
I can see here that I've started this.
And I have,
it's running in the background.
So the my-app-buildah-working-container.
So this is the image, my-app-buildah,
and then working-container's actually
the executing container
at this moment in time.
And then now, what I can do is I can say,
buildah run dash dash
net host my-app-buildah.
Or I just paste that in
there from up there.
my-app-buildah-working-container, which
is what it called it right there.
And then,
I can pass into it dash dash space bash.
And this will execute that against the
container which is going to drop me into
the executing container.
So now, I'm inside of a container
which is inside of a container, right?
So I'm inside of a Docker container which
had Buildah installed, and then I used
that to execute the container which is
running inside of the same context.
So now, if I say cat/etc/issue,
what do we expect to see?
Debian, because that's what
we built our container with.
And now, you can see I'm here,
I could say node index dot js, and
everything will execute just fine.
And it'll be great.
So let's stop that,
we'll exit out of here.
And I can say buildah, is it stop?
[INAUDIBLE] I don't remember.
Kill, maybe?
Remove.
Yep, so I can say buildah rm
my-app-buildah-working-container.
And that'll go and actually shut
down the container from running.
So that's kind of what Buildah can do for
you.
And like I said,
there's some overlap with Podman,
cuz Podman is built for
executing containers.
Buildah's more, as it may sound,
built for building containers.
But there's some overlap
in what they can do.